 d. National Security Agency/Central Security Service (NSA/CSS). In accordance with
Reference (ah), the NSA/CSS provides centralized coordination and direction for signals
intelligence. In accordance with National Security Directive 42 (Reference (ak)), the NSA/CSS
provides IA/cybersecurity support for national security systems and, at the request of the national
security system owner, provides vulnerability assessments. Additionally, in accordance with
Reference (b), the Director, NSA/Chief, CSS may impose special requirements for protection of
classified cryptologic information.

 e. DIA. As assigned by Reference (b) and with the exception of NSA/CSS, the National
Reconnaissance Office, and the National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency, DIA administers
within the Department of Defense the SCI security policies and procedures issued by the DNI.
The Director, DIA, is responsible for development of standards, implementation, and operational
management of the SCI compartments for the Department of Defense.

 f. Defense Security Service (DSS). DSS provides information security education and
training for the Department of Defense as required by DoDI 3305.13 (Reference (al)). DSS, as
the DoD cognizant security office for industrial security, also manages and administers the DoD
portion of the National Industrial Security Program, to ensure the protection of classified information
released or disclosed to industry in connection with classified contracts.

6. DoD COMPONENT INFORMATION SECURITY MANAGEMENT

 a. Head of the DoD Component. The Head of each DoD Component has overall
responsibility for implementation of the information security program within the Component.
This includes responsibility for:

 (1) Designating senior agency officials, including, as appropriate, the DoD Component
senior agency official and senior intelligence official, to be responsible for directing,
administering, and overseeing the information security program within the Component. A
separate senior official responsible for overseeing SAPs within the Component may also be
designated.

 (2) Committing necessary resources to effectively implement the information security
program.

 b. Senior Agency Officials. The senior agency official appointed by the Head of the DoD
Component has day-to-day responsibility for the direction, implementation, and oversight of
Component’s information security program and for its efficient and effective implementation.
These responsibilities include:

 (1) Promulgating guidance necessary for program implementation.

 (2) Ensuring adequate resources for a robust information security program are identified
and programmed.

 (3) Establishing and maintaining a security education program.

 (4) Establishing and maintaining an ongoing self-inspection and program oversight
function.

 (5) Directing the head of each activity within the DoD Component that creates, handles,
or stores classified information to appoint an official to serve as security manager for the activity,
to properly manage and oversee the activity’s information security program.

 c. Activity Security Management. The activity security manager manages and implements
the activity’s information security program and ensures its visibility and effectiveness on behalf
of the activity head, who retains the responsibility for overall management and functioning of the
program. The activity security managers must have sufficient delegated authority to ensure that
personnel adhere to program requirements, and their position within the organizational hierarchy
must ensure their credibility and enable them to raise security issues directly to their respective
activity head.

