4. DIRECTOR, WHS. The Director, WHS, under the authority, direction, and control of the
Chief Management Officer of the Department of Defense, through the Director of

Administration, shall identify to the USD(I&S) an individual and at least one alternate to serve as
the ISCAP liaison for the Department of Defense in accordance with the ISCAP Bylaws in
Reference (f).

5. HEADS OF THE DoD COMPONENTS. The Heads of the DoD Components shall, in
accordance with Reference (b):

 a. Be responsible for the overall management, functioning, and effectiveness of the
information security program within their respective DoD Component.

 b. Appoint a senior agency official to be responsible for directing, administering, and
overseeing the information security program within the Component on his or her behalf and
ensure that official accomplishes the responsibilities in section 7 of this enclosure. The DoD
Component Head may designate a separate senior official to be responsible for overseeing SAPs
within the Component, if necessary, in accordance with DoDD 5205.07 (Reference (q)).

 c. If the Component is not an element of the Intelligence Community, designate a senior
intelligence official to be responsible for ensuring adequate funding and effective
implementation of the Component’s SCI security program, including awareness and education,
consistent with guidance established by the DNI.

 d. Identify, program for, and commit necessary resources to effectively implement the
requirements for protection of classified information as part of the Component’s information
security program.

 e. Conduct, as periodically directed by the USD(I&S), reviews of the DoD Component’s
classification guidance and provide reports summarizing results.

 f. Ensure the Component Senior Agency Official and the Component Senior Intelligence
Official coordinate as appropriate to achieve a harmonized and cohesive information security
program within the DoD Component.

6. SENIOR AGENCY OFFICIALS. The senior agency officials, under the authority, direction,
and control of the Heads of the DoD Components, appointed in accordance with section 6 of this
enclosure shall, in addition to the responsibilities in Volume 4 of this Manual:

 a. Direct, administer, and oversee their respective DoD Component’s information security
program.

 b. Develop guidance as necessary for program implementation within the DoD Component.

 c. Direct the head of each activity within the DoD Component that creates, handles, or stores
classified information to appoint, in writing, an official to serve as security manager for the
activity, to properly manage and oversee the activity’s information security program. Persons

appointed to these positions shall be provided training as Enclosure 5 of Volume 3 of this
Manual requires.

 d. Establish and maintain an ongoing self-inspection and oversight program to evaluate and
assess the effectiveness and efficiency of the DoD Component’s implementation of that portion
of the information security program pertaining to classified information.

 (1) Evaluation criteria shall consider, at a minimum, original and derivative
classification, declassification, safeguarding, security violations, education and training, and
management and oversight.

 (2) The program shall include regular review and assessment of representative samples
of the DoD Component’s classified products. Appropriate officials shall be authorized to correct
misclassification of information, except for information covered by paragraph 17.b. or section 18
of Enclosure 4 of this Volume.

