 (2) Ensure implementation of and compliance with the requirements of this Manual for
all uses of IT. Coordinate with information systems security personnel (e.g., designated approval
authorities (DAAs), information assurance managers (IAMs), information system security
managers) as required for effective management, use, and oversight of classified information in
electronic form.

 k. Develop security measures and procedures, consistent with DoDD 5230.20
(Reference (z)), DoDI 5200.08 (Reference (aa)) and other applicable policies, regarding visitors
who require access to classified information and facilities containing same.

 l. Ensure compliance with the requirements of this Manual when access to classified
information is provided to industry at activity facilities and locations in connection with a
classified contract. If the classified information is provided to industry at the contractor’s
facility, ensure compliance with the provisions of DoDI 5220.22 (Reference (ab)).

 m. Ensure that access to classified information is limited to appropriately cleared personnel
with a need to know as required by section 4.1 of Reference (d) and section 3.1 of E.O. 12968
(Reference (ac)).

 n. Maintain liaison with the special security officer (SSO), as appropriate, on issues of
common concern.

9. TSCO. The TSCO, when designated in accordance with paragraph 8.d. of this enclosure,
shall:

 a. For paper documents and other physical media (e.g., disk drives and removable computer
media), maintain a system of accountability (e.g., registry) to record the receipt, reproduction,
transfer, transmission, downgrading, declassification, and destruction of Top Secret information,
that is not SAP, SCI, and other special types of classified information.

 b. Ensure that inventories of Top Secret information are conducted at least annually or more
frequently when circumstances warrant.

10. SENIOR INTELLIGENCE OFFICIALS. The senior intelligence officials, including those
who are heads of elements of the Intelligence Community and those designated according to
paragraph 6.c of this enclosure, shall:

 a. In accordance with Reference (b):

 (1) Protect intelligence and intelligence sources and methods from unauthorized
disclosure consistent with the policies of the DNI and, where applicable, the requirements of this
Manual and Reference (j).

 (2) Administer and oversee, within their respective organizations, those aspects of the
SCI security programs not delegated to Defense Intelligence Agency (DIA) in accordance with
Reference (b).

 (3) Develop DoD Component-specific implementation guidance as necessary for the
protection of SCI.

 b. Cooperate and coordinate with the Component senior agency official as appropriate to
achieve a harmonized and cohesive information security program within the DoD Component.

 c. Where required by this Manual, provide the USD(I&S) with copies of requests for
exceptions and waivers of information security policies, security incident reports, and other
information submitted to the DNI.

 d. Designate, as required by Intelligence Community Directive 703 (Reference (ad)) and
Reference (j), an activity SSO to be responsible for the day-to-day security management,
operation, implementation, use, and dissemination of SCI within the activity and, as needed,
alternate SSO(s). Such designations shall be made for any activity that is accredited for and
authorized to receive, use, and store SCI and shall be in writing.

 (1) All SCI matters shall be referred to the SSO.

 (2) The SSO may be designated as the activity security manager if the grade
requirements for the position are met; however, the activity security manager cannot function as
the SSO unless so designated by the cognizant senior intelligence official.

