17. SYSTEMATIC REVIEW FOR DECLASSIFICATION. Heads of the DoD Components
that have classified information in accordance with Reference (d) or previous Executive orders
shall establish systematic review programs to review for declassification information in the
custody of the DoD Component. These programs shall review for declassification information
that is contained in permanently valuable historical records that have been exempted from
automatic declassification and shall determine if the information may be further exempt from
automatic declassification in accordance with the provisions of this enclosure. These efforts
shall be prioritized in accordance with the priorities established by the NDC.

18. DOWNGRADING CLASSIFIED INFORMATION. Downgrading information to a lower
level of classification is appropriate when the information no longer requires protection at the
originally assigned level and can be properly protected at a lower level. The principal purpose of
downgrading is to conserve security resources by avoiding protection of information at too high
a level. Any official with jurisdiction over the information who is authorized to classify or
declassify the information may downgrade it.

 a. Downgrading shall be considered when OCAs are deciding on the duration of
classification to be assigned. If downgrading dates or events can be identified, they shall be
specified along with the declassification instruction. Downgrading instructions do not replace
declassification instructions.

 b. An authorized official making a downgrading decision shall notify all known holders of
the change in classification. If the information is subject to the Scientific and Technical
Information Program (STIP) (DoDD 3200.12 (Reference (bk)), the authorized official shall also
notify the Defense Technical Information Center.

 c. When information is marked for downgrading on a specific date or event and that date or
event has passed, holders shall confirm that the OCA(s) of the information has not extended the
higher classification period prior to downgrading DoD information.

 d. Downgraded information shall be marked as required by Enclosure 3 of Volume 2 of this
Manual.

 e. If a holder of classified information has reason to believe it should not be downgraded as
indicated, the originator shall be notified through appropriate administrative channels. The

document or material shall continue to be protected at the originally assigned classification until
the issue is resolved.

19. UPGRADING CLASSIFIED INFORMATION. Classified information may be upgraded to
a higher level of classification only by officials who have been delegated the appropriate level of
OCA in accordance with Enclosure 4 of this Volume. The information to be upgraded must
continue to meet the standards for classification specified in Enclosure 4 of this Volume. When
making the decision to upgrade the classification level, OCAs shall consider the benefits to
national security that will accrue from the higher classification against the costs associated with
upgrading (e.g., the requirement for upgraded clearances or storage facilities, notification costs)
and the ability to notify all holders of the information of the change so that the information shall
be uniformly protected at the higher level. The OCA making the upgrading decision is
responsible for notifying holders of the change in classification. For information subject to the
STIP (Reference (bk)), the OCA shall also notify the Defense Technical Information Center.
Upgraded information shall be marked as required by Enclosure 3 of Volume 2 of this Manual.

