 b. The contractor or individual conducting such an IR&D or B&P effort and believing that
the information generated may require protection in the interest of national security shall
safeguard the information and submit it to an appropriate U.S. Government activity for a
classification determination.

 (1) The U.S. Government activity receiving the request shall issue security classification
guidance, as appropriate, if the information is to be classified. If the information is not under the
activity’s classification authority, the activity shall refer the matter to the appropriate
classification authority and inform the individual or contractor of the referral. The information
shall be safeguarded until the matter is resolved.

 (2) The U.S. Government activity authorizing classification for the information shall
verify whether the contractor or individual is cleared and has been authorized to store classified
information. If not, the U.S. Government activity authorizing classification shall advise whether
security clearance action should be initiated.

 (3) If the contractor or individual refuses to be processed for the appropriate security
clearance and the U.S. Government does not acquire a proprietary interest in the information, the
information may not be classified.

 (4) If the information is not classified, consideration may be given to the need for other
controls applicable to unclassified information (e.g., export controls). (See Volume 4 of this
Manual for guidance on CUI.)

10. THE PATENT SECRECY ACT OF 1952. Sections 181 through 188 of title 35, U.S.C.
(also known and hereinafter referred to as “The Patent Secrecy Act of 1952” (Reference (bd))
provides that the Secretary of Defense, among others, may determine that disclosure of an
invention by granting of a patent would be detrimental to the national security. The Department
of Defense shall handle a patent application on which a secrecy order has been imposed as
follows:

 a. If the patent application contains information that warrants classification, it shall be
assigned a classification and be marked and safeguarded commensurate with the level of
classification.

 b. Unclassified patent applications that do not contain information that warrants
classification, but requires CUI safeguarding and dissemination controls, will be marked as a
category of CUI in accordance with Volume 4 of this Manual. This same requirement applies to
legacy patent applications marked with the former statement that required handling as
CONFIDENTIAL.

11. REQUESTS FOR CLASSIFICATION DETERMINATION. Within 30 days of receipt
OCAs shall provide a classification determination to requests for same from individuals who are
not OCAs, but who believe they have originated information requiring classification. If the

information is not under the OCA’s classification authority, the request shall be referred to the
appropriate OCA and the requestor shall be informed of the referral. Pending a classification
determination the information shall be protected consistent with the requirements of this Manual.

12. CHALLENGES TO CLASSIFICATION

 a. Principles. If holders of information have substantial reason to believe that the
information is improperly or unnecessarily classified, they shall communicate that belief to their
security manager or the OCA to bring about any necessary correction. This may be done
informally or by submitting a formal challenge to the classification in accordance with
References (d) and (f).

