information security. The system of policies, procedures, and requirements established in
accordance with Reference (d) to protect information that, if subjected to unauthorized
disclosure, could reasonably be expected to cause damage to national security. The term also
applies to policies, procedures, and requirements established to protect unclassified information
that may be withheld from release to the public pursuant to Executive order, statute, or
regulation.

integral file block. A distinct component of a file series that should be maintained as a separate
unit to ensure the integrity of the records. An integral file block may consist of a set of records
covering either a specific topic or a range of time, such as a Presidential administration or a
5-year retirement schedule within a specific file series that is retired from active use as a
group. For purposes of automatic declassification, integral file blocks shall contain only records
dated within 10 years of the oldest record in the file block.

integrity. The state that exists when information is unchanged from its source and has not been
accidentally or intentionally modified, altered, or destroyed.

Intelligence Community. An element or agency of the U.S. Government identified in or
designated pursuant to section 3(4) of the National Security Act of 1947, as amended, or
section 3.5(h) of Reference (ah).

international program. Any program, project, contract, operation, exercise, training, experiment,
or other initiative that involves a DoD Component or a DoD contractor and a foreign

government, international organization, or corporation that is located and incorporated to do
business in a foreign country.

material. Any product or substance on or in which information is embodied.

national security. The national defense or foreign relations of the United States. National
security includes defense against transnational terrorism.

national security system. Defined in section 3542(b)(2) of Reference (av).

need to know. A determination that a prospective recipient requires access to specific classified
information in order to perform or assist in a lawful and authorized governmental function.

network. A system of two or more computers that can exchange data or information.

newly discovered records. Records that were inadvertently not reviewed prior to the effective
date of automatic declassification because the Agency declassification authority was unaware of
their existence.

OCA. An individual authorized in writing, either by the President, the Vice President, or by
agency heads or other officials designated by the President, to originally classify information
(i.e., to classify information in the first instance).

original classification. An initial determination that information requires, in the interests of
national security, protection against unauthorized disclosure.

pass/fail. A declassification technique that regards information at the full document level. Any
exemptible portion of a document may result in exemption (failure) of the entire document.
Documents that contain no exemptible information are passed and therefore declassified.
Documents that contain exemptible information are failed and therefore exempt from automatic
declassification.

permanent records. Any Federal record that has been determined by NARA to have sufficient
value to warrant its preservation in the National Archives of the United States. Permanent
records include all records accessioned by NARA into the National Archives of the United States
and later increments of the same records, and those for which the disposition is permanent on
SF 115, “Request for Records Disposition Authority,” approved by NARA on or after May 14,
1973.

