 (2) File Series. For file series exemptions, the Secretary of Defense or the Secretary of a
Military Department, as appropriate, must request the exemption. In either case, the request is
forwarded to the Director of ISOO, serving as Executive Secretary of the ISCAP. OCAs, except
those within a Military Department, shall submit requests for file series exemption through their
DoD Component Head to USD(I&S). USD(I&S) will forward the request to the Secretary of
Defense for decision and ISCAP notification. OCAs within the Military Departments shall
submit requests for exemption to the Secretary of the Military Department, who shall notify the
ISCAP. Military Departments shall provide USD(I&S) an information copy of such
notifications for oversight purposes.

 f. ISCAP Authority. The ISCAP may direct the Department of Defense not to exempt the
specific information, specific records, or file series, or to declassify it at an earlier date than

recommended. The Secretary of Defense or the Secretary of a Military Department, as
appropriate, may appeal such a decision to the President through the National Security Advisor.
The information will remain classified while such an appeal is pending. OCAs shall notify the
appropriate DoD authority if an appeal is necessary and provide justification and rationale to
counter the ISCAP decision. Military Departments shall provide USD(I&S) an information copy
of any appeal for oversight purposes.

 g. Notice to Information Holders. When information has been approved for exemption by
the ISCAP, the OCA must notify all known information holders. This may be done through
issuance of a memorandum or distribution of the declassification guide. DoD Components that
have ISCAP-approved declassification guides must ensure maximum dissemination to record
holders of the information. Holders shall re-mark documents in their possession to reflect the
exemption.

14. DECLASSIFICATION OF INFORMATION MARKED WITH OLD
DECLASSIFICATION INSTRUCTIONS

 a. In accordance with Reference (f), when information is marked with previously authorized
exemption categories X-1 through X-8, or with the instructions “OADR” (Originating Agency’s
Determination Required) or “MR” (Manual Review), including when preceded by “Source
marked,” use a declassification date of 25 years from the date of the source document or 25 years
from the current date if the source document date is not available, unless exempted in accordance
with section 13 of this enclosure.

 b. If imagery subject to E.O. 12951 (Reference (bi)) is marked with the declassification
instruction “DCI Only” or “DNI Only,” use “25X1, E.O. 12951” as the declassification
instruction, as specified by the DNI. (Contact the National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency,
Classification Management (NGA/SISX) for assistance in determining whether specific imagery
is subject to E.O. 12951.) Otherwise, for documents marked with the declassification
instructions “DCI Only” or “DNI Only” which do NOT contain information subject to
Reference (bi), use a declassification date that is 25 years from the date of the source document
or 25 years from the current date if the source document date is not available.

15. REFERRALS IN THE AUTOMATIC DECLASSIFICATION PROCESS. Referrals are
required by References (d) and (f) to ensure timely, efficient, and effective processing of reviews
and to protect classified information from inadvertent disclosure. All referrals contained within
accessioned records will be processed through the NDC.

