 (5) Not process the challenge if it concerns information that has been the subject of a
challenge within the preceding 2 years or is the subject of pending litigation. The DoD
Component shall inform the challenger of the situation and appropriate appellate procedures.

 (6) Refer challenges involving RD to the Department of the Energy and FRD to the
Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense, Nuclear Matters (DASD(NM)) and notify the challenger
accordingly. Do not include a statement about forwarding the challenge to the ISCAP in the
notification letter, as these categories of information are not within the purview of the ISCAP.

 (7) In case a classification challenge involves documents that contain RD and/or FRD as
well as information classified under Reference (d), delete (redact) the RD and FRD portions of
the documents before the document is forwarded to the ISCAP for review.

 ENCLOSURE 5

 DECLASSIFICATION AND CHANGES IN CLASSIFICATION

1. DECLASSIFICATION POLICY

 a. Per Reference (d), information shall be declassified as soon as it no longer meets the
standards for classification. In some exceptional cases, the need to protect information still
meeting these standards may be outweighed by the public interest in disclosure of the
information, and in these cases the information should be declassified. Pursuant to DoD policy
in Reference (b), information shall remain classified only as long as:

 (1) It is in the best interest of national security to keep it protected.

 (2) Continued classification is in accordance with the requirements of Reference (d).

 b. If DoD officials have reason to believe that the public interest in disclosure of information
outweighs the need for continued classification, they shall refer the matter to the appropriate
senior agency official appointed in accordance with section 5.4(d) of Reference (d), who shall
consult with the OCA. The senior agency official shall determine whether to declassify the
information.

 c. Classified information that has been declassified without proper authority remains
classified until declassified by an OCA with jurisdiction over the information.

 (1) Administrative action shall be taken to restore markings and controls, as appropriate.

 (2) If the information is in records in the physical and legal custody of NARA and has
been made available to the public:

 (a) The OCA shall, as part of determining if restoration of markings and controls is
appropriate, consider whether removing the information from public access will significantly
mitigate harm to the national security or otherwise draw undue attention to the information.

 (b) DoD or Military Department senior agency official shall provided written
notification to the Archivist of the United States, which shall include a description of the
record(s), the elements of information that are classified, the duration of classification, and the
specific authority for continued classification. OCAs in DoD Components other than the
Military Departments shall submit notifications to USD(I&S), through their chain of command,
for submission to the Archivist.

 (c) The issue shall be referred to the Director, ISOO if the information is more than
25 years old and the Archivist does not agree with the OCA’s determination that the information
remains classified. The information shall be withdrawn from public access pending resolution.

