11. INFORMATION SYSTEMS SECURITY OFFICIALS. Information systems security
officials (e.g., DAA or agency official (AO), IAM or information systems security manager
(ISSM), and information systems security officer) designated, in writing, as required by
DoDI 8500.01 (Reference (ae)), shall:

 a. Coordinate with the activity security manager regarding implementation of information
systems security measures and procedures.

 b. Notify the activity security manager, who retains overall security responsibility for
required inquiries and investigations, when there are incidents involving possible or actual
compromise or data spills of classified information resident in information systems, as required
by Reference (ae), and coordinate with him or her as required for resolution of the incident.

 ENCLOSURE 3

 DoD INFORMATION SECURITY PROGRAM OVERVIEW

1. PURPOSE. Effective execution of a robust information security program that gives equal
priority to both protecting information and demonstrating a commitment to open Government
and that includes accurate, accountable application of classification standards and routine,
secure, and effective declassification is a national security imperative. This Manual provides
overarching program guidance and direction for the DoD Information Security Program. While
day-to-day program execution is the responsibility of all DoD personnel, program
implementation must be guided by active and engaged senior managers at all levels who have the
responsibility for overall program execution and by security managers who ensure the program is
visible, effective, and efficient.

2. SCOPE. The DoD Information Security Program implements References (b), (d), and (f)
with regard to the classification, declassification, and protection of classified information,
including information categorized as collateral, SCI, and SAP, and provides guidance to users to
identify, mark, and protect certain types of unclassified information, referred to as CUI, in
accordance with Reference (e), Reference (f), and other national-level directives. This combined
guidance is known as the DoD Information Security Program and is applicable to all DoD
Components.

3. PERSONAL RESPONSIBILITY. All personnel of the Department of Defense are personally
and individually responsible for properly protecting classified information and CUI under their
custody and control. All officials within the Department of Defense who hold command,
management, or supervisory positions have specific, non-delegable responsibility for the quality
and effectiveness of implementation and management of the information security program within
their areas of responsibility.

4. NATIONAL AUTHORITIES FOR SECURITY MATTERS

 a. President of the United States. The President of the United States bears executive
responsibility for the security of the Nation, which includes the authority to classify information
for the protection of the national defense and foreign relations of the United States. The
President has established standards for the classification, safeguarding, and declassification of
national security information through the issuance of Reference (d) and for the designation and
protection of CUI through the issuance of Reference (e).

 b. National Security Council (NSC). In accordance with section 3021 of title 50, U.S.C.
(Reference (af)), the NSC provides overall policy guidance on information security.

