 a. Manage and implement the DoD activity’s information security program on behalf of the
activity head, to whom he or she shall have direct access.

 b. Serve as the principal advisor and representative to the activity head in all matters
pertaining to this Manual and maintain cognizance of all activity information, personnel,

information systems, physical and industrial security functions to ensure that the information
security program is coordinated in its execution and inclusive of all requirements in this Manual.

 c. Provide guidance, direction, coordination, and oversight to designated assistant security
managers, TSCOs, TSCAs, security assistants and, as appropriate, others in security management
roles as necessary to ensure that all elements of the information security program are being
administered effectively, efficiently, and in a coordinated manner.

 d. Develop a written activity security instruction that shall include provisions for
safeguarding classified information during emergency situations and military operations, if
appropriate.

 e. Ensure that personnel in the activity who perform security duties are kept abreast of
changes in policies and procedures, and provide assistance in solving problems.

 f. Formulate, coordinate, and conduct the activity security education and training program.
Organizations with elements that are deployable for contingency operations shall ensure
information security training, to include appropriate application to information systems, is an
integral part of pre-deployment training and preparation.

 g. Ensure that threats to security and security incidents pertaining to classified information,
including foreign government information (FGI), are reported, recorded, coordinated with the
proper authorities, and, when necessary, investigated and that appropriate action is taken to
mitigate damage and prevent recurrence. Ensure that incidents involving the loss or compromise
of classified material (as described in Enclosure 6 of Volume 3 of this Manual) are immediately
referred to the cognizant investigative authority. In cases where compromise is determined or
cannot be ruled out, ensure that security reviews and other required assessments are conducted as
soon as possible. Coordinate with local information assurance officials, but retain responsibility
for inquiries into incidents involving possible or actual compromise of classified information
resident in or on IT systems.

 h. Coordinate the preparation, dissemination, and maintenance of security classification
guides under the activity’s cognizance as required by Reference (bm).

 i. Maintain liaison with the activity public affairs officer or information security officer, as
appropriate, and the operations security (OPSEC) officer to ensure that information, including
press releases and photos, proposed or intended for public release, including via website posting,
is subject to a security review in accordance with DoDD 5230.09 (Reference (v)), DoDI 5230.29
(Reference (w)), and DoDI 8550.01 (Reference (x)).

 j. Coordinate with other activity officials regarding security measures for the classification,
safeguarding, transmission, declassification, and destruction of classified information.

 (1) Coordinate as required with the foreign disclosure officer on all matters governing
the disclosure of classified information to foreign governments and international organizations in
accordance with DoDD 5230.11 (Reference (y)).

