 f. Integral File Block. Classified records within an integral file block that are otherwise
subject to automatic declassification in accordance with this section shall not be automatically
declassified until December 31 of the year that is 25 years from the date of the MOST RECENT
record or the date specified by the exemption instruction of the most recent exempted record,
whichever is later, within the file block. For purposes of automatic declassification, integral file
blocks shall contain only records dated within 10 years of the oldest record in the file block.

 g. Delays of Automatic Declassification. The following lists the scenarios for which
automatic declassification may be delayed.

 (1) Media That Is Difficult or Costly to Review. Before the records are subject to
automatic declassification, a DoD Component Head or senior agency official may delay
automatic declassification for up to 5 additional years for classified information contained in
media that make a review for possible declassification more difficult or costly. Prior to taking
such action, officials shall consult with the NDC Director, either through the Component
declassification plan or by memorandum. The Heads of the Military Departments or their senior
agency official shall consult with the NDC Director directly and provide an information copy to
the Deputy Under Secretary of Defense Intelligence and Security (DUSD(I&S)). Other DoD
Component Heads or their senior agency official shall consult with the NDC Director through
DUSD(I&S).

 (a) When determined by NARA or jointly determined by NARA and the Department
of Defense, automatic declassification may be delayed for:

 1. Records requiring extraordinary preservation or conservation treatment, to
include reformatting, to preclude damage to the records by declassification processing.

 2. Records that pose a potential menace to health, life, or property due to
contamination by a hazardous substance.

 3. Electronic media if the media is subject to issues of software or hardware
obsolescence or degraded data.

 (b) Information contained in such media that has been referred shall be automatically
declassified 5 years from the date of notification or 30 years from the date of origination of the
media, whichever is longer, unless the information has been properly exempted.

 (2) Newly Discovered Records. The Director, ISOO, must be consulted whenever a
DoD Component Head determines there is a need to delay automatic declassification for newly
discovered records that were inadvertently not reviewed prior to the effective date of automatic
declassification. Such consultation shall occur not later than 90 days from discovery of the
records. Heads of the Military Departments or their senior agency official will notify ISOO
directly and provide an information copy to DUSD(I&S). Other DoD Component Heads or their
senior agency official will notify ISOO through the DUSD(I&S). The notification should
identify the records and their volume, explain the circumstances leading to discovery of the
missed records, and provide the anticipated date for declassification. A DoD Component has up
to 3 years from the date of discovery to make a declassification, exemption, or referral
determination. Referral to other DoD Components or Federal entities with identified interests or
equities shall be in accordance with subparagraph 12.g.(3) and section 15 of this enclosure.

 (3) Referred Records

