 IA information assurance
 IAM information assurance manager
 IR&D independent research and development
 ISCAP Interagency Security Classification Appeals Panel
 ISOO Information Security Oversight Office
 ISSM information system security officer
 IT information technology

 MR manual review

 NARA National Archives and Records Administration
 NATO North Atlantic Treaty Organization
 NC2-ESI Nuclear Command and Control-Extremely Sensitive Information
 NDC National Declassification Center
 NSA National Security Agency
 NSA/CSS National Security Agency/Central Security Service
 NSC National Security Council

 OADR originating agency’s determination required
 OCA original classification authority
 OPSEC operations security
 OUSD(I&S) Office of the Under Secretary of Defense for Intelligence and Security
 OUSD(P) Office of the Under Secretary of Defense for Policy

 RD Restricted Data

 SAO Senior Agency Official
 SAP Special Access Program
 SCI sensitive compartmented information
 SCIF sensitive compartmented information facility
 SF standard form
 SIPRNET Secret Internet Protocol Router Network
 SSO special security officer
 STIP Scientific and Technical Information Program

 TSCA Top Secret control assistant
 TSCO Top Secret control officer

 UCMJ Uniform Code of Military Justice
 U.S.C. United States Code
 USD(I&S) Under Secretary of Defense for Intelligence and Security
 USD(P) Under Secretary of Defense for Policy
 USSAN United States Security Authority for NATO

 WHS Washington Headquarters Services

 PART II. DEFINITIONS

Unless otherwise noted, these terms and their definitions are for the purpose of this Volume.

access. The ability or opportunity to obtain knowledge of classified information.

accessioned records. Records of permanent historical value in the legal custody of NARA.

activity security manager. The individual specifically designated in writing and responsible for
the activity’s information security program, which ensures that classified information (except
SCI which is the responsibility of the SSO appointed by the senior intelligence official) and CUI
are properly handled during their entire life cycle. This includes ensuring information is
appropriately identified, marked, stored, disseminated, disposed of, and accounted for, as well as
providing guidance on the handling of security incidents to minimize adverse effects and ensure
that appropriate corrective action is taken. The security manager may be assigned
responsibilities in other security disciplines such as personnel and physical security, etc. The
activity security manager implements the information security program guidance established by
this Manual and the Component senior agency official.

agency. Any Executive agency as defined in section 105 of Reference (ay); any Military
Department as defined in section 102 of Reference (bd); and any other entity within the
Executive Branch that comes into the possession of classified information.

authorized person. A person who has a favorable determination of eligibility for access to
classified information, has signed an SF 312 nondisclosure agreement, and has a need to know
for the specific classified information in the performance of official duties.

automatic declassification. The declassification of information based solely upon:

 The occurrence of a specific date or event as determined by the OCA; or

 The expiration of a maximum time frame for duration of classification established pursuant
to Reference (d).

classification. The act or process by which information is determined to be classified
information.

classification guidance. Any instruction or source that prescribes the classification of specific
information.

