 (a) Referring Other Agency Information. Other than records that are properly
excluded or exempted from automatic declassification, records containing classified information
originated by another department or agency or the disclosure of which would affect the interests
or activities of other departments or agencies with respect to the classified information and that

could reasonably be expected to fall under one or more of the exemptions identified in
paragraph 13.b. of this enclosure shall be identified prior to onset of automatic declassification
for later referral to those departments or agencies. DoD Components shall identify other agency
information for referral during the initial review of Component records; referral review will take
place under the auspices of the NDC. The records shall be referred using SF 715, “U.S.
Government Declassification Review Tab.”

 (b) Referrals to the Department of Defense. Other agency records subject to
automatic declassification that contain defense information shall be reviewed by the appropriate
DoD Component upon referral. If a final determination is not provided within 1 year on a
referral made by the NDC, defense information in the referred records shall be automatically
declassified.

 (c) DoD Component Referrals to Other DoD Components. Records containing
information originated by another DoD Component or the disclosure of which would affect the
interests or activities of another DoD Component with respect to the classified information shall
be referred and processed through the NDC, as appropriate. The DoD Component shall be
notified of these types of referrals.

 (d) Referral Review Period. If any disagreement arises between a DoD Component
and the NDC regarding the referral review period, the DoD Component shall notify ISOO and
USD(I&S) of the disagreement. In such cases, the Director of ISOO shall determine the
appropriate review period for referred records. Otherwise, the DoD Component shall provide a
final determination on referrals received through the NDC within 1 year of referral or the
information shall be automatically declassified. If any disagreement arises among the DoD
Components regarding the referral review period, the USD(I&S) shall determine the appropriate
period of review for the referred records.

 h. Automatic Declassification of Backlogged Records at NARA. In accordance with
Presidential Memorandum (Reference (bh)) and under NDC direction:

 (1) Referrals and quality assurance problems within the backlog of more than 400
million pages of accessioned Federal records previously subject to automatic declassification
shall be addressed in a manner that will permit public access to all declassified records from this
backlog no later than December 31, 2013.

 (2) DoD Components shall review all referrals to DoD in the backlogged records and
identify potentially exemptible information for further referral to other agencies. For DoD, the
backlog includes all records reviewed for automatic declassification from April 1995 to
December 2009 that have been accessioned, but not processed, by NARA.

 i. Declassification Review Technique. DoD Components may use a pass/fail or a redaction
declassification technique when doing automatic declassification reviews.

