13. EXEMPTIONS FROM AUTOMATIC DECLASSIFICATION. Reference (d) sets out three
types of exemptions, specific criteria and duration, and the requirements for requesting an
exemption from automatic declassification. Information not exempted from automatic
declassification shall be automatically declassified no later than December 31 of the year that is
25 years from the date of origin. Information exempted from automatic declassification remains
subject to the mandatory and systematic declassification review provisions of this Volume.

 a. Exemption Types

 (1) Specific Information. This exemption option permits OCAs to identify and select
specific information that should be exempted from the automatic declassification provisions.
The information is described topically in a manner similar to how topics of information are
described in a security classification guide and must fall within one or more of the exemption
categories described in paragraph 13.b. of this section.

 (2) Specific Records. This exemption option permits OCAs to identify and select
specific records for exemption from the automatic declassification provisions. The records must
be described at the records title level and must contain information that is eligible for exemption
under one or more of the exemption categories described in paragraph 13.b. of this section.

 (3) File Series. This exemption option allows OCAs to identify an entire file series that
should be exempted from the automatic declassification provisions. File series shall be
considered for exemption only after a review or assessment has determined that the series is
replete with information that almost invariably falls within one or more of the exemption
categories described in paragraph 13.b. of this section.

 b. Exemption Criteria and Duration

 (1) Exempting 25-Year-Old Information. Information that is 25 years old may be
exempted (by topic or file series) from automatic declassification for a period not to exceed 50
years from the date of origin when the release would clearly and demonstrably be expected to:

 (a) Reveal the identity of a confidential human source, a human intelligence source, a
relationship with an intelligence or security service of a foreign government or international
organization, or a non-human intelligence source; or impair the effectiveness of an intelligence
method currently in use, available for use, or under development (exemption 25X1);

 (b) Reveal information that would assist in the development, production, or use of
weapons of mass destruction (exemption 25X2);

 (c) Reveal information that would impair U.S. cryptologic systems or activities
(exemption 25X3);

 (d) Reveal information that would impair the application of state-of-the-art
technology within a U.S. weapon system (exemption 25X4);

 (e) Reveal formally named or numbered U.S. Military war plans that remain in
effect, or reveal operational or tactical elements of prior plans that are contained in such active
plans (exemption 25X5);

 (f) Reveal information, including FGI, that would cause serious harm to relations
between the United States and a foreign government, or to ongoing diplomatic activities of the
United States (exemption 25X6);

 (g) Reveal information that would impair the current ability of U.S. Government
officials to protect the President, Vice President, and other protectees for whom protection
services, in the interest of the national security, are authorized (exemption 25X7);

 (h) Reveal information that would seriously impair current national security
emergency preparedness plans or reveal current vulnerabilities of systems, installations, or
infrastructures relating to the national security (exemption 25X8); or

