 b. Secretary of Defense Certification. In addition to the requirement of paragraph 12.a. of
this section, DoD Components shall not automatically declassify DoD records without reviewing
them for declassification unless the Secretary of Defense has certified to Congress that such
declassification would not harm the national security pursuant to section 1041(c) of Public
Law 106-65 (Reference (bf)). If records will not be reviewed for declassification as required
prior to December 31 of the year in which they become 25 years old, the DoD Component Heads
shall notify the USD(I&S), 6 months in advance of the deadline, so the required Secretary of
Defense certification can be addressed. Notification shall include identification of the records,
the compelling reason why the records will not be reviewed by the deadline, how many records
will remain un-reviewed, where the records are located, and when the required reviews will be
completed.

 c. Public Release of Automatically Declassified Documents. Automatic declassification
does not constitute approval for public release of the information. Automatically declassified
documents shall not be released to the public until a public disclosure review has been conducted
in accordance with paragraph 1.e. of this enclosure. Declassified information may be designated
CUI in accordance with Volume 4 of this Manual if it meets the criteria for designation;
information so designated shall be marked and protected as Volume 4 requires.

 d. Basis for Exclusion or Exemption from Automatic Declassification. Information shall be
excluded or exempted from automatic declassification provisions based on content. Exclusion or
exemption shall not be based solely on the type of document or record in which the information
is found.

 e. Exclusion of RD and FRD. Documents and other materials marked or containing RD or
FRD are excluded from the automatic declassification provisions of Reference (d) and this
Volume until the RD or FRD designation is properly removed. Such information shall remain
classified or shall be referred for a declassification review to the Department of Energy if RD or
the DASD(NM) if FRD.

 (1) In accordance with the provisions of section 3161 of Public Law 105-261
(Reference (bg) (also known as “The Kyl-Lott Amendment”), and its implementing plan, all
personnel who perform automatic declassification reviews on records that are highly likely to
contain RD or FRD must be trained and certified by the Department of Energy in the
identification of unmarked RD and FRD information. DoD Components shall report each
confirmed inadvertent release of RD or FRD occurring during declassification processes to the
Department of Energy and provide a copy to OUSD(I&S) Security Directorate.

 (2) When the RD or FRD pertains to defense nuclear information, declassification
reviews shall be referred to the DASD(NM), who has OCA for defense nuclear information, to
include joint OCA with the Department of Energy for FRD.

 (3) The Secretary of Energy determines when information concerning foreign nuclear
programs that was removed from the RD category in order to carry out provisions of
section 2673 of Reference (af) may be declassified. Unless otherwise determined by the
appropriate OCA, such information shall be declassified when comparable information
concerning the U.S. nuclear program is declassified.

