20. DECLASSIFYING FGI. Pursuant to Reference (d), FGI qualifies as an exemption to the
automatic declassification rule. Within the Department of Defense, every effort shall be made to
ensure that FGI is not subject to downgrading or declassification without the prior consent of the
originating government. FGI may exist in two forms: foreign documents in possession of the
Department of Defense, and foreign government classified information included within U.S.
Government documents.

 a. If FGI in the form of foreign documents in the possession of the Department of Defense
constitute permanently valuable records of the U.S. Government and are subject to the 25-year
automatic declassification rule, declassification officials shall consult with the originating
foreign government to determine whether it consents to declassification. If the originating
foreign government does not consent, the records shall be processed for exemption from
automatic declassification in accordance with section 13 of this enclosure. The agency head
shall determine whether exemption category 25X6, 25X9, or both should be applied.

 b. U.S. Government documents that include classified FGI shall be marked with
declassification instructions as specified in this enclosure and Volume 2 of this Manual. If these
documents are permanently valuable records of the U.S. Government and are subject to the
25- year automatic declassification rule, the provisions of paragraph 20.a. of this section shall
apply. A U.S. document marked as described herein cannot be downgraded below the highest
level of FGI contained in the document or be declassified without the written permission of the
foreign government or international organization that originated the information. Submit
recommendations concerning downgrading or declassification to the DoD organization that
created the document. If that organization supports the recommendation, it shall consult with the
originating foreign government to determine whether that government consents to
declassification.

 c. DoD officials may consult directly with foreign governments regarding downgrading or
declassification of FGI or seek assistance from the Department of State. In either case, DoD
officials should first consult with the Director, International Security Programs, Defense
Technology Security Administration, OUSD(P), for assistance and guidance.

21. APPLICATION OF DECLASSIFICATION AND EXTENSION OF CLASSIFICATION
TO PRESENT AND PREDECESSOR EXECUTIVE ORDERS. The requirements for
declassifying and extending classification specified by this enclosure apply to information
classified in accordance with E.O. 12958 (Reference (bl)) and earlier Executive orders, as well as
to information classified pursuant to Reference (d).

 GLOSSARY

 PART I. ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

 ACCM alternative compensatory control measures
 AO agency official

 B&P bid and proposal

 CI Counterintelligence
 CNWDI Critical Nuclear Weapon Design Information
 COMSEC communication security
 CUI controlled unclassified information
 CUIO Controlled Unclassified Information Office
 CUSR Central U.S Registry

 DAA designated approval authority
 DASD(NM) Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense for Nuclear Matters
 DD DoD
 DIA Defense Intelligence Agency
 DNI Director of National Intelligence
 DoDD DoD Directive
 DoD CIO DoD Chief Information Officer
 DoDI DoD Instruction
 DoDM DoD Manual
 DSS Defense Security Service
 DUSD(I&S) Deputy Under Secretary of Defense for Intelligence and Security

 E.O. Executive order

 FGI foreign government information
 FOIA Freedom of Information Act
 FOUO For Official Use Only
 FRD Formerly Restricted Data

 GS General Schedule

