 b. DoD Component Heads with OCA may designate officials within their organizations to
exercise declassification authority (e.g., make declassification decisions, issue declassification
guidance) over specific types or categories of information for which they are responsible.
Delegations of declassification authority shall be reported concurrently to the Director of
Security, OUSD(I&S). Other OCAs may designate members of their staffs to exercise
declassification authority over information under their jurisdiction. Declassification authorities,
other than original classifiers, shall receive training as specified in section 6 of Enclosure 5,
Volume 3 of this Manual upon initial designation and every 2 years thereafter.

 c. Pursuant to section 7 of this enclosure, only NSA/CSS is authorized to downgrade or
declassify cryptologic information.

 d. If the activity originating the classified information no longer exists, the activity that
inherited the functions of the originating activity shall determine what constitutes appropriate
declassification action. If the functions of the originating activity were dispersed to more than
one activity, the inheriting activity(ies) cannot be determined, or the functions have ceased to
exist, the senior agency official of the DoD Component of the originating activity shall
determine the declassification action to be taken.

 e. Information originated by another agency or DoD Component shall be referred to the
originator for downgrading or declassification determinations.

 f. Declassification of information is an inherently governmental function that must be
performed by a properly trained and authorized U.S. Government employee having the explicit
permission of the government organization that originated the information. DoD Components
must organize for and provide adequate resources to execute this mission while protecting the
national security. Contractors may perform routine administrative, pre-processing, and
technology support functions, as well as make recommendations for declassification of
information. U.S. Government personnel must sample contractors’ declassification
recommendations at a rate of no less than 5 percent of the total volume of records being
processed for declassification, before making the formal decision to declassify the information.

4. DECLASSIFICATION GUIDANCE. Persons with declassification authority shall develop
and issue declassification guidance to facilitate effective review and declassification of
information classified under both current and previous classified national security information
Executive orders. The guidance may be in the form of declassification guides, sections of

security classification guides, memorandums, etc. Exemptions authorized in accordance with
section 13 of this enclosure should be cited in declassification guidance.

5. DECLASSIFICATION OF INFORMATION

 a. Holders of classified information marked with a date or event on the “declassify on” line,
shall, prior to downgrading or declassifying the information, confirm that the OCA(s) for the
information has not extended the classification period.

 b. Holders of classified information may confirm the classification period (i.e., date or event
for declassification) by reference to the applicable security classification or declassification
guide or other appropriate guidance issued by the OCA(s), or by consultation with the OCA(s).
Classified information shall continue to be safeguarded as required for the indicated
classification level until the holder has confirmed that the OCA(s) has not extended the
classification period.

