senior agency official. An official appointed by the head of a DoD Component to be responsible
for direction, administration, and oversight of the Component’s information security program, to
include classification, declassification, safeguarding, and security education and training
programs, and for the efficient and effective implementation of References (b), (d), (e), and (f)
and the guidance in this Manual. Where used in reference to authorities pursuant to
section 5.4(d) of Reference (d), this term applies only to the senior agency officials of the
Military Departments and of the Department of Defense.

senior intelligence official. The highest ranking military or civilian charged with direct foreign
intelligence missions, functions, or responsibilities with a department, agency, component, or
element of an Intelligence Community organization. Responsible for direction, administration,
and oversight of the organization’s SCI program, to include classification, declassification,
safeguarding, and security education and training programs for the effective implementation of
References (b), (j), and (ad) and the guidance in this Manual.

SSO. Individual appointed, in accordance with References (j) and (ad), by the senior intelligence
official to be responsible for the day-to-day security management, operation, implementation,
use, and dissemination of SCI within an activity.

tab. A narrow paper sleeve placed around a document or group of documents in such a way that
it is readily visible.

telecommunications. The preparation, transmission, or communication of information by
electronic means.

transferred records. Records transferred to agency storage facilities or a Federal records center.

unauthorized disclosure. Communication or physical transfer of classified or controlled
unclassified information to an unauthorized recipient.

unscheduled records. Records whose final disposition has not been approved by NARA.

U.S. entity

 State, local, or tribal governments.

 State, local, and tribal law enforcement and firefighting entities.

 Public health and medical entities.

 Regional, State, local, and tribal emergency management entities, including State Adjutants
General and other appropriate public safety entities.

 Private sector entities serving as part of the Nation’s critical infrastructure and/or key
resources.

violation

 Any knowing, willful, or negligent action that could reasonably be expected to result in an
unauthorized disclosure of classified information.

 Any knowing, willful, or negligent action to classify or continue the classification of
information contrary to the requirements of Reference (d), its implementing directives, or this
Manual.

 Any knowing, willful, or negligent action to create or continue a special access program
contrary to the requirements of Reference (d), Reference (q), or this Manual.

waiver. An approved temporary or short-term exclusion or deviation from an information
security standard or requirement, as specified in this Volume.

weapons of mass destruction. Any weapon of mass destruction as defined in section 1801(p) of
Reference (af).