 (b) The Secretary of Defense approves the reclassification based on a document-by-
document determination and recommendation by the Head of the originating DoD Component,
other than the Secretary of a Military Department, when that reclassification of the information is
required to prevent significant and demonstrable damage to the national security.
Reclassification and release of information under proper authority means the DoD Component
with jurisdiction over the information authorized declassification and release of the information.
The Secretaries of a Military Department shall approve the reclassification of information under
their jurisdiction on the same basis and shall notify the USD(I&S) of the action. The Military
Departments shall provide implementing guidance to their subordinate activities for submitting such
requests.

 (2) DoD Component Heads other than the Secretaries of the Military Departments shall
submit recommendations for reclassification of information under their jurisdiction to the
Secretary of Defense through the USD(I&S). Recommendations for reclassification must
include, on a document-by-document basis:

 (a) A description of the information.

 (b) All information necessary for the original classification decision in accordance
with Reference (bm), including classification level of the information and declassification
instructions to be applied.

 (c) When and how it was released to the public.

 (d) An explanation as to why it should be reclassified. Include the applicable reason
in accordance with Reference (d) and describe what damage could occur to national security.
Also describe what damage may have already occurred as a result of the release.

 (e) The number of recipients and/or holders and how they will be notified of the
reclassification.

 (f) How the information will be recovered.

 (g) Whether the information is in the custody of NARA and whether the Archivist of
the United States must be notified of the reclassification as specified in subparagraph 7.b.(4) of
this section.

 (3) Once a reclassification action has occurred, it must be reported to all recipients and
holders, to the Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs (herein after referred to as
“the National Security Advisor”) and to ISOO within 30 days. The notification to ISOO must
include how the “reasonably recoverable” decision was made, including the number of recipients
or holders, how the information was recovered, and how the recipients and holders were notified.
The Secretaries of the Military Departments shall notify the National Security Advisor and ISOO
directly and provide an information copy to the USD(I&S). The Secretary of Defense, after
making reclassification decisions, will notify the National Security Advisor and ISOO of such
decisions.

 (4) For documents in the physical and legal custody of NARA that have been available
for public use, reclassification must also be reported to the Archivist of the United States, who
shall suspend public access pending approval of the reclassification action by the Director,
ISOO. The Secretaries of the Military Departments shall notify the Archivist directly and
provide an information copy to USD(I&S). The Secretary of Defense will notify the Archivist as
required for decisions involving other DoD Components. Disapproval of the reclassification
action by the Director, ISOO, may be appealed to the President through the National Security
Advisor. Public access shall remain suspended pending decision on the appeal.

 (a) OCAs shall notify the Secretary of Defense of the need to appeal ISOO decisions
through their DoD Component Head and the USD(I&S).

