 (4) NATO Control Point Officer. In accordance with Reference (t), the Secretary of the
Army operates the Central U.S. Registry (CUSR), the main receiving and dispatching element
for NATO information in the U.S. Government. The activity NATO Control Point Officer and
any designated alternate(s) ensure that NATO information is correctly controlled and accounted
for and that NATO security procedures specified in Reference (u) are followed. The CUSR
manages the U.S. Registry system of subregistries, communications centers, and control points to
maintain accountability of NATO classified information and it conducts inspections of the
associated security processes and procedures. Further information can be found at
http://www.cusr.army.mil.

 (5) SSO. An SSO is to be designated by the Senior Intelligence Official for any activity
that is accredited for and authorized to receive, use, and store SCI. The activity SSO is
responsible, in accordance with References (j) and (ad), for the day-to-day security management,
operation, implementation, use, and dissemination of SCI within the activity.

 (6) SAP Security Officer. In accordance with the requirements of Reference (q), a SAP
security officer is to be designated for any activity that is accredited for and authorized to
receive, use, and store SAP information.

 (7) Information Systems Security Officials. Information systems security officials (e.g.,
AO, ISSM, and information systems security officer) manage and oversee the DoD IT
infrastructure (i.e., computer systems and networks). As computers are found everywhere within
the Department of Defense, close coordination with these officials regarding implementation of
security measures and procedures is imperative.

 (8) CI and OPSEC. The activity’s information security program must also be closely
coordinated and aligned with the DoD Component’s CI and OPSEC functions in order to
maintain the security essential to warfighter and mission success.

7. USE OF CONTRACTORS IN SECURITY ADMINISTRATION. In accordance with
DoDI 1100.22 (Reference (ao)) and Office of Federal Procurement Policy Letter 11-01
(Reference (ap)), there are certain critical, closely associated with inherently governmental, or
otherwise exempt functions and activities that cannot or should not be performed by a contractor.
The DoD Components shall be careful not to outsource security functions that are inherently
governmental.

 a. Activity security management shall ensure that contractors who are involved in security
administration and support duties are clearly identified in their capacities, roles, and functions, to
ensure there is no possible confusion regarding which security personnel may exercise inherently
governmental authorities and which may not.

 b. Inherently governmental activities and functions include those that require either the
exercise of substantial discretion in applying U.S. Government authority, or value judgments
when making decisions for the U.S. Government. Inherently governmental security functions
include, but are not limited to:

 (1) Approving and issuing security policies and procedures.

 (2) Making original classification decisions, or rendering classification determinations
regarding classified information that is improperly or incompletely marked. (Correcting
improper markings when the appropriate classification is not in question is not considered
rendering a classification determination.)

 (3) Deciding to downgrade or declassify information. (Adhering to security markings on
information or to guidance stated in an appropriate security classification or declassification
guide is not considered a downgrading or declassification decision.)

 (4) Deciding challenges to classification and any appeals.

