 a. Description. The referral process involves identification of information in records
containing classified information that originated with another DoD Component or Executive
Branch agency or the disclosure of which would affect the interests or activities of another DoD
Component or Executive Branch agency and that could reasonably be expected to fall within one
or more of the exemptions listed in subparagraph 13.b.(1) of this enclosure. Such records are

eligible for referral. The referral process also requires formal notification of referral, making the
records available for review, and recording final determinations.

 b. Referral Responsibility. Identification of records eligible for referral is the responsibility
of the primary reviewing agency and shall be completed prior to the date for automatic
declassification established in accordance with section 12 of this enclosure. DoD Components
shall use SF 715 to identify any record requiring referral.

16. MANDATORY DECLASSIFICATION REVIEW. Any individual or organization may
request a declassification review of information classified pursuant to Reference (d) or previous
classified national security information orders. Heads of the DoD Components shall establish
processes for responding to such requests in accordance with Reference (f).

 a. Information reviewed shall be declassified if it no longer meets the standards for
classification established by this Volume. The declassified information shall be released unless
withholding is authorized under other applicable law and the requirement of paragraph 1.e. of
this enclosure.

 b. Upon receiving a request for a mandatory declassification review, the responsible DoD
organization shall conduct the review if:

 (1) The request describes the document or material with enough specificity to allow DoD
Component personnel to locate the records with a reasonable amount of effort. Requests for
broad types of information, entire file series of records, or similar non-specific requests may be
denied.

 (2) The information falls under its purview.

 (a) If documents or material being reviewed for declassification contain information
originally classified by another DoD Component or U.S. Government agency or the disclosure of
which would affect the interests or activities of another DoD Component or U.S. Government
agency, the reviewing activity shall refer the appropriate portions of the request to the originating
or affected organization. Unless the association of that organization with the requested
information is itself classified, the DoD Component that received the review request shall notify
the requester of the referral. The DoD Component that received the review request remains
responsible for collecting all determinations made by organizations to which the information was
referred and for informing the requestor of the final decision regarding declassification, unless
other prior arrangements have been made.

 (b) Requests for cryptologic information shall be processed in accordance with
section 7 of this enclosure.

 (c) The DoD Component that initially received or classified FGI shall determine
whether the information is subject to a treaty or international agreement that does not permit
unilateral declassification. (Refer also to section 20 of this enclosure.)

 (3) The information is not the subject of pending litigation.

 (4) The information is not contained within an operational file that is exempt from search
and review, or disclosure, pursuant to sections 3141, 3142, 3143 and 3144 of Reference (af) or
other applicable statute.

