 (5) The information has not been reviewed for declassification within the preceding
2 years. If the requested information has been reviewed for declassification within the 2 years
preceding the request, the DoD Component shall notify the requester of the prior review decision
and provide appeal rights information. No further review is required.

 (6) The information was not originated by the incumbent President or the incumbent
Vice President, the incumbent President’s White House staff, or the incumbent Vice President’s
staff, committees, commissions, or boards appointed by the incumbent President, or other entities
within the Executive Office of the President that solely advise and assist the incumbent
President. Information so originated is exempt from the provisions of this section.

 (7) The request was submitted to a Defense Intelligence Component by a U.S. citizen or
an alien lawfully admitted for permanent residence; otherwise, the request may be denied.

 c. A DoD Component may refuse to confirm or deny the existence or nonexistence of
requested information when the fact of its existence or nonexistence is properly classified.

 d. DoD Components shall either make a prompt declassification determination and notify the
requester accordingly, or inform the requester of the additional time needed to process the
request. DoD Components shall ordinarily make a final determination within 1 year from the
date of receipt.

 (1) In making a declassification determination DoD Components shall determine
whether the information continues to meet the requirements for classification. Information to be
withheld must not only qualify for classification under the criteria identified in paragraph 1.b of
Enclosure 4, but there also must be a current basis for continued classification.

 (2) When information cannot be declassified in its entirety, DoD Components shall make
reasonable efforts to release, consistent with other applicable law and the requirements of
paragraph 1.e. of this enclosure, those declassified portions of the requested information that
constitute a coherent segment. Where information is withheld the specific reason, as specified
by section 1.4 of Reference (d) and identified in paragraph 1.b of Enclosure 4 of this Volume,
must be included for each redaction. Information that is redacted due to a statutory authority
must be clearly marked with the specific authority that authorizes the redaction.

 e. The mandatory declassification review process shall provide for administrative appeal in
cases where the review results in the information remaining classified. The requester shall be
notified of the results of the review and of the right to appeal, within 60 days of receipt, the
denial of declassification. If the requester files an appeal, the DoD Component appellate

authority shall make a determination within 60 working days following receipt. If additional
time is required to make a determination, the appellate authority shall notify the requestor of the
additional time needed and provide the reason for the extension. If the appeal is denied, the
requester shall be notified of the right to appeal the denial to the ISCAP.

 f. Requesters may be charged fees for processing their requests in accordance with the
schedule of fees in Volume 11 A of DoD 7000.14-R (Reference (bj)).

