 d. Classified information shall be marked as declassified, as specified by Enclosure 3 of
Volume 2 of this Manual, before it is handled as unclassified. Holders of classified information
marked with a date or event on the “declassify on” line shall, when the date or event has passed,
confirm that the OCA(s) of the information has not extended the classification period. This can
be done by reference to a security classification or declassification guide or to other appropriate
guidance issued by the OCA or by consultation with the OCA. Once declassification is
confirmed, such information may be made publicly available only as provided in paragraph 1.e
of this section.

 e. Declassification does not authorize release of the information to the public.
DECLASSIFIED INFORMATION SHALL NOT BE RELEASED TO THE PUBLIC UNTIL A
PUBLIC RELEASE REVIEW AS REQUIRED BY REFERENCES (V) AND (W) HAS BEEN
CONDUCTED to determine if there are reasons for withholding some or all of the information.
Declassified information may be released to the public unless withholding is appropriate in
accordance with other applicable law (for example, FOIA or the Privacy Act of 1974, as
amended) or DoD issuance (for example, Reference (v) and DoDD 5230.25 (Reference (be)).
Regardless of the date specified for declassification, declassified information shall not be
approved for public release without referral to the OCA of the information, except records
accessioned by NARA that were reviewed for automatic declassification in accordance with
section 3.3 of Reference (d) will be reviewed by NARA for public release.

 f. Personnel leaving DoD employment or service may not direct that information be
declassified in order to remove it from DoD control.

 g. OCAs affected by ISCAP deliberations shall be notified of the final decision and shall
consider the need to change classification and declassification guides to reflect the specific
ISCAP decision.

2. PROCESSES FOR DECLASSIFICATION. Reference (d) establishes four separate and
parallel processes for declassifying information:

 a. A process requiring the original classifier to decide at the time information is classified
when it may be declassified.

 b. A process that shall cause information of permanent historical value to be automatically
declassified no later than 31 December of the year that is 25 years from the date of its origin
unless specific action is taken to keep it classified.

 c. A process for reviewing information for possible declassification upon request (mandatory
declassification review).

 d. A process for systematic review of information for possible declassification.

3. AUTHORITY TO DECLASSIFY

 a. Information may be declassified or downgraded by the cognizant OCA, by supervisory
officials of the OCA if the supervisory official has OCA, or by those officials who have been
delegated declassification authority in accordance with paragraph 3.b. of this enclosure. The
authority to declassify information extends only to information for which the specific official has
classification, program, or functional responsibility.

