 c. Reporting of Incidents. Security incidents involving classified information shall be
 reported as required in Enclosure 6 of Volume 3 of this Manual. Incidents involving CUI shall
be reported as Volume 4 requires.

 APPENDIX TO ENCLOSURE 3

 DOD COMPONENT REQUEST FOR WAIVER OR EXCEPTION

 [CLASSIFICATION]

 COMPONENT SENIOR AGENCY OFFICIAL LETTERHEAD

 [month, day, year]

 MEMORANDUM FOR DIRECTOR, SECURITY POLICY AND OVERSIGHT DIVISION,
 OFFICE OF THE UNDER SECRETARY OF DEFENSE FOR INTELLIGENCE AND
 SECURITY

SUBJECT: Request for [Organization Name] Waiver [or Exception] (Information Security)
from DoDM 5200.01 Standard [or Requirement]

 Purpose: The [Title, Organization Name] requests a waiver or exception from
DoDM 5200.01, [volume, enclosure, paragraph/section], for a [short description of the
requirement or standard for which the waiver or exception is sought]. [SAO title, Organization,
Name] has reviewed this request with attachments and concurs with this request.

 Justification: [Brief description of the rationale and justification for the request for
waiver or exception, to include negative impacts to cost, schedule, mission, or operations.]

 Mission Analysis Summary: A mission analysis that discusses missions and functions
impacted by this waiver or exception is at TAB A.

 Risk Assessment: The risk management assessment at TAB B identifies vulnerabilities
and risk management considerations related to this request for waiver or exception.

 Mitigation Measures: The mitigation measures at TAB C describe measures identified
to reduce risks identified at TAB B. [If there are no mitigation measures, state “None.”] The
[SAO Title, Organization Title] concurs with this request and the mitigation measures and
accepts the risk level based on the mitigation measures to be taken.

 Timeframe: This is a temporary waiver request from [start date] through [end date]. or
This is a permanent exception request.

 The POC for this action is [Name, Title, Organization, Phone number, email address].

 [Signature Block of Component SAO]

Attachments:
As stated
 [CLASSIFICATION]

 ENCLOSURE 4

 CLASSIFYING INFORMATION

1. TENTATIVE CLASSIFICATION. Individuals who submit information to OCAs for original
classification decisions shall provide the OCA the information required by paragraphs 6.a.
through 6.f. of this enclosure, and may, as necessary, tentatively classify information or
documents as working papers, pending approval by the OCA. Final classification decisions must
be made as soon as possible, but not later than 180 days from the initial drafting date of the
document. Prior to the OCA’s classification decision, such information shall be safeguarded as
required for the specified level of classification and it shall not be used as a source for derivative
classification.

2. DERIVATIVE CLASSIFICATION

 a. When incorporating, paraphrasing, restating, or generating classified information in a new
form or document (i.e., derivatively classifying information), it must be identified as classified
information by marking or similar means. Derivative classification includes classification of
information based on classification guidance in a security classification guide or other source
material, but does not include photocopying or otherwise mechanically or electronically
reproducing classified material.

 b. Within the DoD all cleared personnel, who generate or create material that is to be
derivatively classified, shall ensure that the derivative classification is accomplished in
accordance with this enclosure. No specific, individual delegation of authority is required. DoD
officials who sign or approve derivatively classified documents have principal responsibility for
the quality of the derivative classification.

