 (1) Informal questioning of classification is encouraged before resorting to formal
challenge. If the information holder has reason to believe the classification applied to
information is inappropriate, he or she should contact the classifier of the source document or
material to resolve the issue.

 (2) The Heads of the DoD Components shall ensure that no retribution is taken against
any individual for questioning a classification or making a formal challenge to a classification.

 (3) Formal challenges to classification made pursuant to this section shall include
sufficient description of the information being challenged to permit identification of the
information and its classifier with reasonable effort. Challenges to classification made by DoD
personnel shall also include the reason why the challenger believes that the information is
improperly or unnecessarily classified. The challenge shall be unclassified, if possible.

 (4) Pending final decision on the classification level, the information that is the subject
of a classification challenge will remain classified at its current classification level or the
recommended change level, whichever is higher. The information will continue to be
safeguarded unless and until a decision is made to declassify it.

 (5) The provisions of this section do not apply to information required to be submitted
for prepublication review or other administrative process pursuant to an approved NDA.

 b. Procedures. The Heads of the DoD Components shall encourage classification challenges
and establish procedures for handling challenges to classification received from within and from
outside their Components in accordance with Reference (f). The DoD Components shall:

 (1) Incorporate the following language for Component security classification guides
consistent with the intent of Section 5.3 of Reference (d):

 (a) Follow the guidance provided in Paragraph 12 of this enclosure for individuals
who wish to challenge information they believe has been improperly or unnecessarily classified.

 (b) Such challenges are encouraged, and expected, and should be forwarded through
the appropriate channels to the office of primary responsibility.

 (c) Pending final decision, handle and protect the information at its current
classification level or at the recommended change level, whichever is higher.

 (d) Challenges should include sufficient description to permit identification of the
specific information under challenge with reasonable effort.

 (e) Challenges should include detailed justification outlining why the information is
improperly or unnecessarily classified.

 (2) Establish a system for processing, tracking, and recording formal challenges to
classification, including administrative appeals of classification decisions, and ensure that DoD
Component personnel are made aware of the established procedures for classification challenges.

 (3) Provide an opportunity for review of the information by an impartial official or panel.

 (4) Except as provided in subparagraphs 12.b.(5) and (6) of this section, provide an
initial written response to each challenge within 60 days. If not responding fully to the challenge
within 60 days, the DoD Component shall acknowledge the challenge and provide an expected
date of response. This acknowledgment shall include a statement that, if no response is received
within 120 days, the challenger has the right to forward the challenge to the ISCAP for decision.
The challenger may also forward the challenge to the ISCAP if the Component has not
responded to an appeal within 90 days of receipt of the appeal. DoD Component responses to
those challenges it denies shall include the challenger’s right to appeal to the ISCAP.

