 c. The Military Departments will forward requests for waiver or exception through their
SAOs for endorsement before submitting such requests to the USD(I&S) for approval. DoD
Components will provide all requests for waiver or exception, including those approved by the
USD(P), to the USD(I&S) through the Director, Security Policy and Oversight Division. The
USD(I&S) and USD(P) shall be responsible for promptly notifying the Director, ISOO, of
approved waivers and exceptions involving References (d) and (f).

 d. Requests for information security waivers and exceptions shall contain sufficient
information to permit a complete and thorough analysis to be made of the impact of approval on
national security. Minimally, requests must identify the specific provision(s) of this Manual for
which the waiver or exception is sought (cite this Manual by volume, enclosure, and paragraph)
and provide rationale and justification for the request, including negative impacts to cost,
schedule, mission, or operations; a mission analysis summary to identify vulnerabilities and risk
management considerations; a summary of proposed mitigation measures to reduce risk; and the

necessary duration for any waivers). A sample template memorandum for requesting waivers and
exceptions is at the Appendix to this enclosure. Current waivers and exceptions will continue to
be valid until they are due for renewal.

 e. In the case of information security waivers and exceptions involving classified
information, the DoD Components shall maintain documents regarding approved waivers and
exceptions, and furnish such documents to other agencies with which they share affected
classified information or secure facilities, except documentation regarding approved waivers and
exceptions involving marking of classified information need be shared only upon request.

18. CORRECTIVE ACTIONS AND SANCTIONS

 a. Procedures. Heads of the DoD Components shall establish procedures to ensure that
prompt and appropriate management action is taken in cases of compromise of classified
information and unauthorized disclosure of CUI, improper classification or designation of
information, violation of the provisions of this Manual, and incidents that may put classified
information and CUI at risk of unauthorized disclosure. Such actions shall focus on correcting or
eliminating the conditions that caused or brought about the incident.

 b. Sanctions

 (1) DoD military and civilian personnel may be subject to criminal or administrative
sanctions if they knowingly, willfully, or negligently:

 (a) Disclose classified information to unauthorized persons.

 (b) Classify or continue the classification of information in violation of this Volume.

 (c) Create or continue a SAP contrary to the requirements of Reference (q) and this
Volume.

 (d) Disclose CUI to unauthorized persons.

 (e) Violate any other provision of this Manual.

 (2) Sanctions include, but are not limited to, warning, reprimand, suspension without
pay, forfeiture of pay, removal, discharge, loss, or denial of access to classified information
and/or CUI, and removal of classification authority. Criminal sanctions may also be undertaken
in accordance with sections 801-940 of title 10, U.S.C. (also known as “The Uniform Code of
Military Justice” (UCMJ) (Reference (ax)) and other applicable U.S. criminal laws.

 (3) If an individual delegated OCA demonstrates reckless disregard or a pattern of error
in applying the classification standards of this Volume, the appropriate official shall, as a
minimum, remove the offending individual’s OCA.

