 c. If the holder of a document has reason to believe it should not be declassified as specified,
the originator shall be notified through appropriate administrative channels. The document or
material shall continue to be protected at the originally assigned classification until the issue is
resolved.

 d. Declassification markings are used to clearly convey the declassified status of the
information and who authorized the declassification. All declassified information in agency
records not held by NARA shall have the declassification markings required by Enclosure 3 of
Volume 2 of this Manual applied.

6. CANCELING OR CHANGING CLASSIFICATION MARKINGS. Declassification
authority is not required for simply canceling or changing classification markings in accordance
with guidance from an OCA or declassification authority. Sections 18 and 19 of this enclosure
provide guidance on downgrading and upgrading classified information.

7. SPECIAL PROCEDURES FOR CRYPTOLOGIC INFORMATION. Only NSA/CSS may
declassify cryptologic information. Therefore, such information uncovered in systematic or
mandatory review of U.S. Government records for declassification, including such information
incorporated into other documents, must be referred to the NSA/CSS for declassification
determination.

 a. Recognition of cryptologic information is not always easy since it may concern or reveal
the processes, techniques, operations, and scope of signals intelligence, which consists of
communications intelligence, electronic intelligence, and foreign instrumentation signals
intelligence, or it may concern IA, which includes COMSEC, including the communications
portion of cover and deception plans. Much cryptologic information is also considered FGI.

 b. NSA/CSS has established special procedures for mandatory review for declassification of
classified cryptologic information. For questions regarding cryptographic equities or for
referrals for declassification determination, contact:

 Director, National Security Agency/
 Chief, Central Security Service
 ATTN: Declassification Services (DJP5)
 Fort George G. Meade, MD 20755-6248

8. PERMANENTLY VALUABLE RECORDS

 a. Classified information in records that are scheduled for retention by NARA as
permanently valuable records when that information is less than 20 years old shall be subject to
the automatic declassification provisions of section 12 of this enclosure when the information is
25 years old.

 b. Classified information in records that are scheduled for retention by NARA as
permanently valuable records when that information is already more than 20 years old shall be
subject to the automatic declassification provisions of section 12 of this enclosure 5 years from
the date the records are scheduled.

9. RECORDS DETERMINED NOT TO HAVE PERMANENT HISTORICAL VALUE.
Classified records determined not to be permanently valuable and not scheduled retention by
NARA are subject to the automatic declassification provisions of this issuance. The disposition
(destruction) date of those records in the DoD Component’s Records Control Schedule or
General Records Schedule approved by NARA shall be used as the declassification date,
although the duration of classification may be extended if a record has been retained for business
reasons beyond its scheduled destruction date. If the disposition date extends beyond 25 years,
an exemption request must be submitted to and approved by the ISCAP in accordance with the
procedure in section 13 of this enclosure.

