 e. Protection of NATO and FGI. NATO classified information shall be safeguarded
consistent with References (d) and (u). Other FGI shall be safeguarded consistent with
Reference (d) and the requirements of this Manual, except as required by the Appendix to
Enclosure 4 of Volume 3; treaties; or international agreements. Information that is jointly
developed with a foreign partner under a cooperative program agreement will be safeguarded in
accordance with the security and disclosure provisions of the cooperative arrangement.

 f. Protection of Nuclear Command and Control-Extremely Sensitive Information (NC2-ESI).
Certain information pertaining to the command and control of nuclear weapons is designated
NC2-ESI. NC2-ESI information shall be marked, safeguarded, and distributed in accordance
with CJCS Instruction 3231.01B (Reference (au)).

14. RETENTION. Classified information and CUI shall be maintained only when it is required
for effective and efficient operation of the organization or if law, treaty, international agreement,
or regulation requires its retention. Such information shall be disposed in accordance with the
provisions of chapter 33 of title 44, U.S.C. (Reference (av)), as implemented by DoDD 5015.02
(Reference (aw)), and DoD Component implementing directives and records schedules.

15. PERMANENTLY VALUABLE RECORDS. Classified and controlled unclassified
documents and material that constitute permanently valuable records of the U.S. Government
shall be maintained and disposed of in accordance with Reference (aw) and appropriate DoD

Component directives and records schedules. Other classified and controlled unclassified
material shall be destroyed as specified in this Manual. When transferring classified records for
storage or archival purposes to the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA) or to
other locations, identify the boxes that contain foreign government documents as well as DoD
documents containing FGI.

16. MILITARY OPERATIONS. Military commanders may modify the provisions of this
Manual pertaining to accountability, dissemination, transmission, and storage of classified and
controlled unclassified material and information as necessary to meet local conditions
encountered during military operations. Military operations include combat and peacekeeping
operations but not routine Military deployments or exercises. Classified information and CUI
shall be introduced into combat areas or zones, or areas of potential hostile activity, only as
necessary to accomplish the military mission.

17. WAIVERS AND EXCEPTIONS. Unless otherwise specified in this Volume, the DoD
Components must submit requests for information security waivers or exceptions to the
standards and requirements in this Manual through the chain of command to the USD(I&S),
Attn: Director, Security Policy and Oversight Division, for approval.

 a. If the waiver or exception involves any of the other security areas (e.g., industrial,
physical, personnel), it must first be internally coordinated with the applicable security office(s)
before the waiver or exception request is submitted for endorsement by the senior agency official (SAO).
This may involve a separate request for waiver or exception based on the requirements of the
other security policy issuances.

 b. Waivers or exceptions pertaining to foreign government (including NATO) information
and security arrangements for international programs must only be submitted to and approved by
the USD(P), who will ensure concurrence by the USD(I&S) if the request involves the any of the
security disciplines.

