 (3) Self-inspections shall be conducted at least annually with the frequency established
based on program needs and classification activity. DoD Component activities that originate
significant amounts of classified information should be inspected at least annually. Annual
reports on the Component’s self-inspection program shall be submitted as required by ISOO
and/or USD(I&S). The report shall include:

 (a) A description of the agency’s self-inspection program, to include activities
assessed, program areas covered, and methodology utilized.

 (b) A summary of the findings in the following program areas: original classification,
derivative classification, declassification, safeguarding, security violations, security education
and training, and management and oversight.

 (c) Specific information on the findings of the annual review of agency original and
derivative classification actions to include the volume of classified materials reviewed and the
number and type of discrepancies that were identified.

 (d) Actions taken or planned to correct identified deficiencies or misclassification
actions, and to deter their recurrence.

 (e) Best practices identified. The DoD Inspector General Report DODIG-2013-142
(Reference (r)) identifies examples of DoD Component best practices, including the following:

 (1) Using Microsoft SharePoint to make available all information that security
managers need to manage their programs and share unit best practices.

 (2) Creating and using an electronic security manager handbook.

 (3) Providing and maintaining open communications between different levels of
management structure within the organization.

 (4) Establishing and using online training tools to track training requirement
completion.

 (5) Issuing and using the Quarterly Security newsletter that provides information
security articles, security updates, and upcoming security courses.

 (6) Maintaining an automated security incident reporting program.

 (7) Maintaining complete inventories of all classified documents and electronic
media to provide precise tracking of classified holdings.

 (8) Developing organization derivative classification training.

 (9) Reviewing the process for public release of information.

 (10) Maintaining a central security and education awareness mailbox with
questions answered by close of business.

 (11) Tracking mandatory annual security and derivative classification training by
the Human Resources Information System of Record, which enhances better oversight of
training completion rates.

 (12) Developing a comprehensive security database reflecting final adjudication
and investigation of security incidents.

 e. Establish procedures to prevent unauthorized persons from accessing classified
information, including:

 (1) Specific requirements for protecting classified information at DoD Component-
sponsored meetings and conferences, to include seminars, exhibits, symposiums, conventions,
training activities, workshops, or other such gatherings, during which classified information is
disseminated.

 (2) Requirements for protecting U.S. classified information located in foreign countries,
with particular attention on ensuring proper enforcement of controls on release of U.S. classified
information to foreign entities.

 (3) Procedures to accommodate visits to DoD Component facilities involving access to,
or disclosure of, classified information.

 f. Establish and maintain declassification programs and plans that meet the requirements of
this Manual and ensure that necessary resources are applied to the review of information to
ensure it is neither classified for longer than necessary nor declassified prematurely.

