 (1) The activity security manager may be assigned full-time, part-time, or as a collateral
duty, provided that the responsibilities delineated in section 9 of this enclosure can be adequately
and professionally executed and implemented.

 (2) The activity security manager shall:

 (a) Be a military officer, senior non-commissioned officer, or a civilian employee
with sufficient authority, staff, and other resources necessary to manage the program for the
activity.

 1. For activities with more than 100 personnel assigned, a senior non-
commissioned officer designated as the activity security manager shall be E-7 or above; a
civilian employee so designated shall be GS-11 or above (or pay band equivalent).

 2. For activities with less than 100 personnel assigned, a senior non-
commissioned officer designated as the activity security manager shall be E-6 or above; a
civilian employee so designated shall be GS-7 or above (or pay band equivalent).

 (b) Be a U.S. citizen.

 (c) Have been the subject of a favorably adjudicated, current background
investigation appropriate for the highest level of classification of information handled by
personnel within the activity in accordance with requirements of DoD 5200.2-R (Reference (s)).

 (d) Have access appropriate to the level of information managed.

 c. In large activities and where circumstances warrant, designate, in writing, activity
assistant security manager(s) to assist in program implementation, maintenance, and local
oversight.

 (1) Responsibilities assigned to assistant security managers shall be commensurate with
their grade level, experience, and training.

 (2) Individuals assigned as assistant security managers shall be U.S. citizens with
security clearances and accesses appropriate to their assigned responsibilities.

 (3) Assistant security managers shall report directly to the activity security manager who
shall provide guidance, direction, coordination, training, and oversight necessary to ensure that
the program is being administered effectively.

 d. Optionally, where circumstances warrant (such as in activities with large repositories of
Top Secret information), designate an activity Top Secret control officer (TSCO) to manage and
account for Top Secret materials, and Top Secret control assistant(s) (TSCA(s)) as needed to
assist the TSCO. When used, designations shall be in writing. Top Secret couriers are NOT
considered TSCA(s).

 (1) An individual designated as the TSCO must have been the subject of a favorably
adjudicated, current background investigation in accordance with requirements of Reference (s)
and must have Top Secret access. The TSCO shall report directly to the activity security
manager, or the activity security manager may serve concurrently as the TSCO.

 (2) An individual designated as a TSCA must have been the subject of a favorably
adjudicated, current background investigation in accordance with requirements of Reference (s)
and must have Top Secret access.

 e. When required by DoDD 5100.55 (Reference (t)), designate, in writing, an activity NATO
control point officer and at least one alternate to ensure that NATO information is correctly
controlled and accounted for, and that NATO security procedures are followed. United States
Security Authority for NATO (USSAN) Instruction 1-07 (Reference (u)) was written by USD(P)
on behalf of the Secretary of Defense, acting as the U.S. Security Authority to NATO and
administrator of NATO information security regulation. It establishes procedures and minimum
security standards for the handling and protection of NATO classified information.

8. ACTIVITY SECURITY MANAGER. The activity security manager shall:

