 c. DNI. The DNI is head of the Intelligence Community and principal advisor to the
President and the NSC for intelligence matters related to national security pursuant to Section
1011 of Public Law 108-458 (Reference (ag)) and Section 1.3 of E.O. 12333 (Reference (ah)).
The DNI is also charged by section 1.3(b)(8) of Reference (ah) with protecting intelligence
sources, methods, and activities, and in this role, the DNI issues instructions in the form of
Intelligence Community Directives or other security policies and standards for the protection,
management and oversight of SCI and other national intelligence.

 d. ISOO. The ISOO, under the authority of the Archivist of the United States, acting in
consultation with the NSC, issues directives as necessary to implement Reference (d). The
directives establish national standards for the classification and marking of national security
information, security education and training programs, safeguarding, self-inspection programs,
and declassification. The ISOO has the responsibility to oversee agency implementation and
compliance with these directives. In this role, the ISOO requests certain information regarding
DoD activities, and such requests are coordinated through USD(I&S).

 e. CUI Office (CUIO). The CUIO, under the authority of the Archivist of the United States,
issues directives as necessary to implement Reference (e). The directives establish national
standards for designation, safeguarding, marking, and dissemination of CUI as well as standards
for education and training. The CUIO has the responsibility to oversee agency implementation
and compliance with these directives. CUIO requests for information regarding DoD activities
are coordinated through USD(I&S).

5. DoD INFORMATION SECURITY PROGRAM MANAGEMENT

 a. USD(I&S). Reference (a) designates the USD(I&S) as the DoD Senior Security Official.
In this role, the USD(I&S) is the DoD Senior Agency Official responsible for directing,
administering, and overseeing the DoD Information Security Program for the Department of
Defense, and except as provided in paragraph 5.b. of this section, performs the functions
specified in subsection 5.4(d) of Reference (d) and its implementing directives for the
Department of Defense. The USD(I&S) is also the Restricted Data Management Official for the
Department of Defense consistent with the requirement in part 1045 of title 10, Code of Federal
Regulations (References (ai) and (as)).

 b. USD(P). In accordance with Reference (p), the USD(P) is the senior official responsible
for directing, administering, and overseeing that portion of the DoD Information Security
Program pertaining to foreign government (including NATO) information, the disclosure of
classified information to foreign governments and international organizations, and security
arrangements for international programs. Within the scope of these responsibilities, the USD(P)
also performs the functions specified in subsection 5.4(d) of Reference (d) and its implementing
directives for the Department of Defense.

 c. DoD CIO. In accordance with DoDD 5144.02 (Reference (aj)), the DoD CIO is
responsible for all matters relating to the DoD information enterprise, including communications;
spectrum management; network policy and standards; information systems; cybersecurity;

positioning, navigation, and timing policy; and the DoD information enterprise that supports
DoD command and control.

