 (b) Notifications shall clearly articulate the compelling national security reasons for
reclassifying the information and shall counter the ISOO rationale for disapproving the
reclassification.

 (5) Once a final decision is rendered, OCAs shall update their security classification
guidance accordingly. The reclassified information must be marked and safeguarded in
accordance with the requirements of Volumes 2 and 3 of this Manual.

 (6) Any cleared recipients or holders of reclassified information shall be notified and
appropriately briefed about their continuing legal obligations and responsibilities to protect this
information from unauthorized disclosure. The recipients or holder who do not have security
clearances shall, to the extent practicable, be appropriately briefed about the reclassification of
the information to which they have had access and their obligation not to disclose the
information, and shall be asked to sign an acknowledgement of the briefing and to return all
copies of the information in their possession.

 c. Information Declassified and Released to the Public Without Proper Authority.
Information that was declassified without proper authority remains classified. See paragraph 7.a.
of this enclosure and paragraph 1.c. of Enclosure 5 of this Volume.

8. CLASSIFICATION OR RECLASSIFICATION FOLLOWING RECEIPT OF A REQUEST
FOR INFORMATION. Information that has not previously been released to the public under
proper authority may be classified or reclassified after receiving a request for it under FOIA;
section 2204(c)(1) of Reference (av) (also known as “The Presidential Records Act of 1978”);
section 552a of Reference (ay) (also known and hereinafter referred to as “The Privacy Act of
1974, as amended”); or the mandatory review provisions of section 3.5 of Reference (d), only if
it is done on a document-by-document basis with the personal participation or under the direction
of the USD(I&S), the Secretary or Under Secretary of a Military Department, or the senior
agency official appointed within a Military Department in accordance with section 5.4(d) of
Reference (d). OCAs shall submit requests to the USD(I&S) through the Head of the DoD
Component.

 a. The provisions of this section apply to information that has been declassified in
accordance with the date or event specified by the OCA as well as to information not previously
classified.

 b. Classification requests shall provide all information necessary for the original
classification process as specified by Reference (bm).

 c. The Secretaries of the Military Departments shall notify the USD(I&S) of classification
decisions made in accordance with the provisions of this section.

 d. Once a decision is rendered, OCAs shall update their security classification guidance as
needed.

9. CLASSIFYING NON-GOVERNMENT RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT
INFORMATION

 a. Information that is a product of contractor or individual independent research and
development (IR&D) or bid and proposal (B&P) efforts, as defined by DoDI 3204.01 (Reference
(bc)), conducted without prior or current access to classified information associated with the
specific information in question, may not be classified unless:

 (1) The U.S. Government first acquires a proprietary interest in the information; or,

 (2) The contractor or individual conducting the IR&D or B&P requests that the U.S.
Government contracting activity place the information under the control of the security
classification system without relinquishing ownership of the information.

